#LyX 2.0 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 413
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass book
\use_default_options true
\master Data-Journalism-Developer-Studio-2012LX.lyx
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\default_output_format pdf5
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref true
\pdf_title "Data Journalism Developer Studio 2012LX: An appliance for computational journalism"
\pdf_author "M. Edward (Ed) Borasky"
\pdf_subject "Data Journalism"
\pdf_keywords "data journalism, computational journalism"
\pdf_bookmarks true
\pdf_bookmarksnumbered true
\pdf_bookmarksopen true
\pdf_bookmarksopenlevel 2
\pdf_breaklinks true
\pdf_pdfborder false
\pdf_colorlinks true
\pdf_backref false
\pdf_pdfusetitle true
\papersize letterpaper
\use_geometry false
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\use_mhchem 1
\use_mathdots 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation skip
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict true
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Chapter*
\noindent
About the Author
\end_layout

\begin_layout Verse
\noindent
“Two roads diverged in a yellow wood,
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

And sorry I could not travel both
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

And be one traveler, long I stood
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

And looked down one as far as I could
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

To where it bent in the undergrowth”
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

-- Robert Frost, “The Road Not Taken”
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\noindent
Once upon a time, in a land we'll call, for want of a better name, Camelot,
 there was a young man who, for want of a better name, we'll call Maurice.
 He was all of 17, a sophomore, almost a junior in college.
 He had entered college at 16, originally planning to become a biochemist
 like his father.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\noindent
The theory of chemistry was easy for him, but he was a complete klutz in
 the lab.
 By the time the last day to drop out of Organic Chemistry had arrived,
 he had scored near perfect marks on homework assignments and exams but
 was many days behind in the lab assignments.
 It was clear he would never be a biochemist and he dropped the course.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\noindent
The two roads that diverged in that yellow wood were mathematics and journalism.
 And he made a deal with himself.
 He would take a math course and a journalism course, and whichever one
 gave him a better grade would be his life's work.
 At the end of the semester, math had yielded an A and journalism a B.
 Mathematics it was.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\noindent
Even so, the theory of mathematics wasn't all that interesting to him, and
 teaching didn't appeal to him either.
 He was a researcher like his father.
 Proving theorems and exploring highly abstract concepts seemed like the
 wrong path for a young man with ideals and a desire to change the world.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\noindent
And the world itself was changing.
 Three technologies: nuclear energy, space flight and computers were emerging.
 Writers, both fiction and non-fiction, speculated on a world, utopian or
 dystopian, in which computers would replace humans.
 Our protagonist decided that he should know as much as possible about computers
, in order to survive in the world to come.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\noindent
He took a programming course, along with two dozen other undergraduates.
 The first day, the instructor told the class how difficult programming
 was.
 “Probably no more than four of you will pass this course, and only one
 will get an A.
 This is hard.
 Not everyone can do it.
 If you get to the point where you discover it is not for you, it's OK to
 drop out.”
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\noindent
The instructor had exaggerated slightly.
 By the end of the semester, six students had passed and all of them had
 earned an A.
 You surely know by now that Maurice was one of the survivors.
 What you may not know is how incredibly easy programming was for him, and
 that within hours of his first successful program run, early in his senior
 year and late in his 19th year of life, he had discovered what he was put
 on Earth to do.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\noindent
He graduated at 19 with a Bachelor of Arts in Mathematics and a skill few
 people possessed at the time.
 It was also a skill highly prized, and rather than continue in academia,
 he went to work in industry, at a company we will call, for want of a better
 name, IBM.
 Eventually he would work in the nuclear energy and space flight industries
 as well, but most of his time was spent in what would become known as Informati
on Technology.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\noindent
He was known by many titles: programmer, analyst, computer scientist, applied
 mathematician, software engineer.
 But through it all, there was a unique current of the logic of programming
 and mathematical models of the real world.
 Mostly what he did could be called scientific applications or operating
 systems programming.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\noindent
And what of the road not taken, journalism? That's what he does now, specificall
y technology blogging, data and computational journalism.
 He collects tools, builds more tools, researches the data, metrics and
 mathematical models that incorporate themselves into our lives, and marvels
 at the things that have come to pass, both utopian and dystopian, since
 John Von Neumann, his colleagues and contemporaries devised the first stored-pr
ogram computers.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\noindent
Von Neumann wrought his creations in wartime, as did Turing and Zuse.
 The modern computer was born as an instrument of war, as was the Internet.
 And like space flight and nuclear energy, the computer and the Internet
 have only imperfectly been beaten into plowshares.
 We live, for example, in a world where anarchists have discovered ways
 to disrupt our online lives for their own amusement.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\noindent
Data and computational journalism exist to help readers steer a path between
 the utopias and dystopias that seem to confront us on a daily basis in
 the second decade of the twenty-first century.
 Maurice is too old to be a futurist and too young to be an historian.
 So his hope is that you, the developers and storytellers, will record the
 history and define the future with these tools.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
