#LyX 2.0 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 413
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass book
\use_default_options true
\master Data-Journalism-Developer-Studio-2012LX.lyx
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\default_output_format pdf5
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref true
\pdf_title "Data Journalism Developer Studio 2012LX: An appliance for computational journalism"
\pdf_author "M. Edward (Ed) Borasky"
\pdf_subject "Data Journalism"
\pdf_keywords "data journalism, computational journalism"
\pdf_bookmarks true
\pdf_bookmarksnumbered true
\pdf_bookmarksopen true
\pdf_bookmarksopenlevel 2
\pdf_breaklinks true
\pdf_pdfborder false
\pdf_colorlinks true
\pdf_backref false
\pdf_pdfusetitle true
\papersize letterpaper
\use_geometry false
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\use_mhchem 1
\use_mathdots 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation skip
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict true
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Chapter*
\noindent
About this eBook
\end_layout

\begin_layout Verse
\noindent
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

There are three kinds of men.
 The one that learns by reading.
 The few who learn by observation.
 The rest of them have to pee on the electric fence for themselves.”
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

-- Will Rogers
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\noindent
I have two audiences in mind for this book, as I do for the Data Journalism
 Developer Studio.
 The first is developers and the second is journalists.
 My hope is that what I've written here will not bore the developers and
 will not frighten the journalists.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\noindent
For journalists, I assume only the ability to use a spreadsheet.
 You will, I hope, be able to use the end-user tools provided in Data Journalism
 Studio Developer Studio 2012LX, learn enough about development to be able
 to tell a developer what you need and to understand why what you want may
 not always work.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\noindent
For developers, I recognize that you most likely have your favorite languages,
 tools, editors, operating systems and IDEs.
 Since Data Journalism Developer Studio is based on openSUSE Linux, almost
 everything you could ever want in the open source world is available
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
